So you should have Docker Desktop
installed at this point for MAC and
Windows.
There is no Docker Desktop for Linux,
in which case you'll need Docker
engine which doesn't have a GUI.
You can see here this little Docker whale
will be at the bottom in the system tray
if you're in Windows.
You can see here I have
Docker Desktop running.
The next thing I wanna get you more
acquainted with is Docker Hub.
So you can just go to hub.docker.com.
This is probably one of
the best parts about Docker,
is that they basically made these node
terms and then npm for containers, right?
So I can just say hey, Docker,
give me a MongoDB container and
you just pull it down.
It starts running it and
it knows everything it's supposed to do.
It's a bit of a black box, right?
I don't know exactly what it's
doing underneath the hood,
I just know that it runs Mongo.
And that's great!
Cuz I didn't wanna know how to run Mongo,
if you know how to run Mango,
you wish you didn't know how to run Mongo,
right, one of those things.
And it has, I'm gonna say thousands and
tenths of thousands of containers, right?
So you can see here it has
official ones from Oracle,
has an official MySQL one,
Couch Base, DB2?
Does anyone use DB2?
My dad was a DB2 salesman,
that's true story.
That's why I grew up around computers.
I don't know why I thought that was
necessary to share but it's sharing time.
[LAUGH] Yeah, you can see here
there's literally anything.
So if I type Mongo, you'll see that the
official Mongo one comes up right here and
you can see this has been downloaded
10 million times, so a few times.
So feel free to sign up for
an account if you want to.
It's free, there's no reason not to.
I have one.
And I have published one container which
we will be using during the class today.
But that's when if I go in here and
say docker mongo:3 like this,
that's where, I need to get out of this.
So you can be done with this environment
now so we can safely exit out of it.
Hence, just so
you know if you do exit out of it you've
thrown away the entire environment, right?
Because containers, once you close them,
disappear into the ether,
they don't save anything.
So let's just see,
if you type docker ps it'll show you
all your containers that are running.
If your Docker is not working,
you'll see an error message,
if you try to run docker ps,
it'll fix that.
And if I say docker
pull mongo:3 it's gonna
go get this off of Docker hub, right?
It'll look something like this.
So you can see, again,
I'm just reminding you,
some of these containers are quite big.
This one is 117 megabytes.
So let that run in the background for
a little bit, so yeah, again,
there's Docker containers for
just about anything, right?
There's ones for node, there's ones for
Ruby, there's one for Go.
There's just about anything you can
imagine someone's probably built
a Docker container for, right?
It's like node when you're writing
something if you need a module,
chances are someone's written that
module and you can just npm install it.
In this case,
we can use Docker Hub for this.
So before you start going and building
your own bespoke artisanal containers,
check out to see if
Docker Hub has it first.